# Engines

- Owner: @sorenbs
- Stakeholders: @mavilein
- State:
  - Spec: Stable ✅
  - Implementation: In Progress 🚧

Binaries are the artifacts generated by compiling Prisma's core (written in Rust).

---

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->


- [Prisma Framework Engines](#prisma-framework-engines)
  - [Prisma Query Engine](#prisma-query-engine)
  - [Prisma Migration Engine](#prisma-migration-engine)
  - [Prisma Introspection Engine](#prisma-introspection-engine)
- [Binaries](#binaries)
- [Communication Protocols](#communication-protocols)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Prisma Framework Engines

### Prisma Query Engine

Prisma query engine binary has the following use cases:

A generator like [`Photon`](https://photonjs.prisma.io)

- Uses this binary to run queries against a data source (at runtime of generated code).
- Binary is downloaded when Photon is generated.

Prisma CLI

- Generation uses this binary to fetch internal schema representation (at the time of running `generate` CLI command).
- Binary is downloaded when the CLI is installed.

### Prisma Migration Engine

Prisma migration engine binary has the following use cases:

A generator like `prisma-test-utils`

- Uses this binary to perform migrations (at runtime of generated code)
- Binary is downloaded when `prisma-test-utils` is generated.

Prisma CLI

- Lift commands use the binary to perform migrations or calculate pending migrations (at the time of running various `lift` commands like `up`, `save` etc).
- Binary is downloaded when the CLI is installed.

### Prisma Introspection Engine


## Binaries

TODO Link to https://github.com/prisma/specs/blob/master/binaries/Readme.md

## Communication Protocols

TODO Move https://github.com/prisma/specs/blob/master/binaries/Readme.md#binary-protocols over here
